---
layout: post
title: 'Solution 1'
tag: "solution"

---

Problem: Suppose you have an $$ n \times n $$ grid. Show that for any $$ 2n - 1 $$ points chosen on the grid, there exist $$ 3 $$ points that form a right-angle triangle.

Solution: The standard solution here is to use the pigeon-hole principle. 

We note that the existence of an (axis-aligned) right-angle triangle is guaranteed if there exists a point such that there exists one point in the same row (i.e. with the same y-coordinate) and another point in the same column (i.e. with the same x-coordinate). 

This motivates us to try to find the number of points that share a row/column with another point. To find the minimum number of points that share a row/column with another point, we find the maximum number of points that don't share a row/column with another point. This comes out to $$ n - 1 $$ since we can isolate $$ n-1 $$ points in $$ n - 1$$ row/columns (we can't do $$ n $$ since we only have $$ n $$ rows and given we have $$ >n $$ points, one row will have more than one point.)

Therefore, the minimum number of points that share a row is $$ n $$. Likewise, the number of points that share a column is $$ n $$. Given that we have only $$ 2n - 1 $$ points, we see that there must be $$ 1 $$ point which both shares a row with another point and shares a column with another point. 


Extension: Show that $$ 2n - 2 $$ points aren't sufficient to get an (axis-aligned) right-angle triangle. Is it sufficient to get any right-angle triangle (not necessarily axis-aligned)?

Solution (Extension): If the grid is $$ [1,n] \times [1,n] $$, consider the $$ 2n - 2 $$ points $$ (1,1), (1,2), \dots, (1,n-2), (1,n-1), (2,n), (3,n), \dots, (n-1,n), (n,n) $$. We see that no right-angle triangle can be made (even non axis aligned). 

